#summary Installation and usage guide for KaNDAS.
#labels Product-KaNDAS,Category-UserDoc


KaNDAS is an interface to the Linux NDAS driver which allows to connect and disconnect NDAS devices. Some devices have multiple slots to connect to, these appear in KaNDAS as well.

== Installation ==

You need to have installed the packages _libqt4_ and _kdelibs4_ (or _libkde4_) and their development packages. Refer to your system's documentation for how to install these packages. The NDAS driver has to be installed, refer to [http://code.ximeta.com the Ximeta homepage] for details. KaNDASd does also have to be installed, refer to UserguideKandasd for details.

Download a source package of KaNDAS from this server and unpack it; a directory _kandas-0.1_ or similar should appear. Open a terminal window and go to this directory, then execute the following commands:
{{{
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
sudo make install
}}}
If any of the commands fails (i.e. an error message does appear), do not proceed before the error has been fixed.

== Usage ==

Make sure a KaNDASd instance is running (that should be done automatically, refer to UserguideKandasd for details). Execute the command _kandas_ or open KaNDAS from the application's menu.

The KaNDAS main window is devided into two parts: the upper list shows all available devices. When you select one of these, the lower list will show the slots in this device. When you have selected a device or a slot, use the tool buttons at the top of the window to connect to or disconnect from the selected item.